一、 Part 1 1 月在考新题（3 道）
1 P1 Colours
What's your favorite colour?
What's the colour you dislike? Why?
What colours do your friends like most?
What colour makes you uncomfortable in your room?
2 P1 Borrowing/lending
Have you borrowed books from others?
Have you ever borrowed money from others?
Do you like to lend things to others?
How do you feel when people don't return things they borrowed from you?

3 P1 Hats/caps
Is wearing hats popular in your country?
Where do you like to buy hats?
What kinds of hats do you have?
Do you like to wear hats?
二、 Part 2&3 1 月在考新题（6 道）
1 P2 精力充沛的人
Describe an energetic person that you know
You should say:
Who this person is
How you knew this person
Why you think this person is energetic
And explain how you feel about this person
P3
What kinds of jobs need a lot of physical work?
What's the difference between the payment for physical work and that for
mental work?
Can physical workers receive higher salaries in the future?
Do you think machines could replace human workers in the future?
Do you think you are an energetic person?
Do you think there was more physical labor in the past than there is now?
2 P2 近期日常改变
Describe a positive change that you have made recently in your daily routine
You should say:
What the change is
How you have changed the routine
Why you think it is a positive change
And explain how you feel about the change

P3
What do people normally plan in their daily lives?
Is time management very important in our daily lives?
What changes would people often make?
Do you think it is good to change jobs frequently?
Who do you think would make changes more often, young people or
old people?
Who should get more promotion opportunities in the workplace,
young people or older people?
3 P2 感兴趣的科学学科/领域
Describe an area/subject of science (biology, robotics, etc.) that you are
interested in and would like to learn more about
You should say:
Which area/subject it is
When and where you came to know this area/subject
How you get information about this area/subject
And explain why you are interested in this area/subject
P3
Why do some children not like learning science at school?
Is it important to study science at school?
Which science subject is the most important for children to learn?
Should people continue to study science after graduating from school?
How do you get to know about scientific news?
Should scientists explain the research process to the public?
4 P2 想去的外国
Describe a foreign country you would like to visit in the future
You should say:
What it is
What you have known about it

Who you would like to go there with
And explain why you would like to visit it
P3
What do you think of national identity?
What are the advantages of working in an international company?
How does travelling abroad affect young people?
How do people get information about other countries?
Do you think reading is a good way to get to know other countries? Why?
What do you think makes countries different?
5 P2 学校/工作中的重要规则
Describe a rule that is important in your school or at work
You should say:
What the rule is about
What happens when people break the rule
Why you think it is an important rule
And explain how you feel about the rule
P3
What rules should children follow at home in your country?
On what occasions can children be forgiven if they don't follow some rules?
What rules should people follow when using public transport?
What kinds of rules do people need to follow in public places?
What are the reasons that cause people to break rules?
When people break rules, how would they be punished in your country?
6 P2 重要决定
Describe an important decision that you made
You should say:
What the decision was
How you made your decision
What the results of the decision were

And explain why it was important
P3
Do you think children sometimes have to make important decisions?
What important decisions do teenagers need to make after graduation?
Who can children turn to for help when making a decision?
Do you think advertisements can influence our decisions when shopping?
Do you think the influence of advertising is good?
How do people usually make important decisions?
三、 Part 1 老题沿用（46 道+5 道万年老题）
1 P1 Bikes
Did you have a bike when you were young?
Do you have a bike now?
Do you often ride a bike now?
Are bikes popular in China?
Did you ride a bike when you were little?
2 P1 Coins
Do you often carry coins with you?
Have you ever collected coins?
Is it convenient to use coins?
Do you use coins in your daily life?
Did you use coins as a child?
3 P1 Roads and streets
Are the roads and streets in the area where you live busy?
How do people cross the road in the city where you live?
What is the condition of the roads in your city like?
Do you think the roads in your city need improvement?
Are there any famous roads or streets in your country?

4 P1 Laughing
Do you enjoy watching interesting and funny movies?
Do you think you are a funny person?
Are you a person who often makes others laugh?
Do you always laugh at funny things?
When was the last time you laughed?
5 P1 Fishing
Is fishing popular in your country?
Do you like eating fish?
Do you like fishing?
Did you ever go fishing when you were a child?
6 P1 Teachers
Do you have a favourite teacher?
In what way has your favourite teacher helped you?
Do you have a teacher from your past that you still remember?
Are you still in touch with your primary school teachers?
Do you want to be a teacher in the future?
7 P1 Place of work/study
Do you prefer to study at home or in a library?
What is your favourite place to study?
What part of your school do you like the most?
Do you prefer to work at home or in the workplace?
Do you prefer to work alone or in a group?
8 P1 Perfume
Do you like perfume?
Do you use perfume?

Where do you spray perfume?
Do you send perfume to others as a gift?
Do you spend a lot of money on buying perfume?
9 P1 Good view
What is the view like around the place where you live?
Have you seen an unforgettable and beautiful view or scenery?
Would you take photos when you see a good view?
What is your favourite place? Why?
10 P1 Teamwork
Do you like teamwork?
Have you teamed up with someone else before?
What do you learn from working in a team?
What do you dislike about teamwork?
11 P1 Meet new friends/people
Do you like making friends?
Did you make a lot of friends when you were a child?
Have you made any new friends recently?
What do you often talk about with your new friends?
Do you like meeting new people?
Where can you meet new people?
Do you enjoy talking to new people?
Do you meet new people more often now than in the past?
12 P1 Swimming
Do you like swimming?
Is it difficult to learn how to swim?
Where do people in your country like to go swimming?
What’s the difference between swimming in the pool and swimming in the sea?

13 P1 Mobile phone
What was your first mobile phone?
Do you often use your mobile phone for texting or calls?
Will you buy a new one in the future?
How has your mobile phone changed your life?
14 P1 Evening time
Do you like the morning or evening?
What do you usually do in the evening？
What did you do in the evening when you were little? Why?
Are there any differences between what you do in the evening now and what
you did in the past?
Do you spend your evenings doing the same things on both weekends and
weekdays? Why?
What do you hate doing in the evening?
15 P1 Feeling bored
Do you often feel bored?
When would you feel bored?
What do you do when you feel bored?
Do you think childhood is boring or adulthood is boring?
16 P1 Computers
In what conditions would you use a computer?
When was the first time you used a computer?
What would your life be like without computers?
In what conditions would it be difficult for you to use a computer?
17 P1 Talents
Do you have a talent or something you are good at?
Was it mastered recently or when you were young?

Do you think your talent can be useful for your future work? Why?
Do you think anyone in your family has the same talent?
18 P1 Mirrors
Do you like looking at yourself in the mirror? How often?
Have you ever bought mirrors?
Do you usually take a mirror with you？
Would you use mirrors to decorate your room?
19 P1 Old buildings
Have you ever seen old buildings in the city？
Do you think we should preserve old buildings in cities？
Do you prefer living in an old building or a modern house？
Are there any old buildings you want to see in the future? Why?
20 P1 Lost and found
What will you do if you find something lost by others?
Do you report to the police when finding something lost by others? Why?
Have you ever lost things?
Will you post on social media if you lose your item?
21 P1 Emails
Do you often send emails?
When would you send emails to others?
Is sending emails popular in China?
Do you think sending emails will be more or less popular in the future?
22 P1 Dreams
Can you remember the dreams you had?
Do you share your dreams with others? (or are you interested in others’
dreams?)
Do you think dreams have special meanings?

Do you want to make your dreams come true?
23 P1 Advertisement
Is there an advertisement that made an impression on you when you were a
child?
Do you see a lot of advertising on trains or other transport?
Do you like advertisements?
What kind of advertising do you like?
24 P1 Taking photos
Do you like taking photos?
Do you like taking selfies?
What is your favourite family photo?
Do you want to improve your photography skills?
25 P1 Cars
Did you enjoy traveling by car when you were a kid?
What types of cars do you like?
Do you prefer to be a driver or a passenger?
What do you usually do when there is a traffic jam?
Do you think car colours are important?
26 P1 Street Market
Are there many street markets in China?
When was the last time you went to a street market?
Do you prefer to go shopping in the shopping mall or on the street market?
What do people usually buy on the street market？
27 P1 Websites
What kinds of websites do you often visit?
What is your favourite website?
Are there any changes to the websites you often visit?

What kinds of websites are popular in your country?
28 P1 Watch
Do you wear a watch?
Have you ever got a watch as a gift?
Why do some people wear expensive watches?
Do you think it is important to wear a watch? Why?
29 P1 Time management
How do you plan your time in a day?
Is it easy to manage time for you?
When do you find it hard to allocate time?
Do you like being busy?
30 P1 Books and reading habits
Do you often read books? When?
Are your reading habits now different than before?
Have you ever read a novel that has been adapted into a film?
Which do you prefer, reading books or watching movies?
Do you read more or less now than when you were younger?
31 P1 Collecting things
Do you collect things?
Are there any things you have kept from your childhood?
Would you keep old things for a long time? Why?
Where do you usually keep things you need?
32 P1 Sitting down
Where is your favorite place to sit?
Do you always sit down for a long time?
Do you feel sleepy when you are sitting down?
When you were a kid, did you usually sit on the floor?

Do you find it easy to fall asleep when sitting on a sofa?
33 P1 Friends
Do you have a friend you have known for a long time?
What do you usually do with your friends?
Where do you often meet each other?
Do you often go out with your friends?
How important are friends to you?
Do you prefer to spend time with one friend or with a group of friends?
Would you invite friends to your home?
34 P1 Art/drawing
Do you like drawing?
Do you like to go to the gallery?
Do you want to learn more about art?
Did you learn drawing when you were a kid?
35 P1 Sports programs
Do you like watching sports programs on TV?
Do you like to watch live sports games?
Who do you like to watch sports games with?
What kinds of games do you expect to watch in the future?
Do you prefer to watch sports games alone or with a group of friends?
Have you ever watched a sports game in a stadium?
36 P1 Hobby
Do you have any hobbies?
Did you have any hobbies when you were a child?
Do you have a hobby that you've had since childhood?
Do you have the same hobbies as your family members?

37 P1 Science
Do you like science?
When did you start to learn about science?
Which science subject is interesting to you?
What kinds of interesting things have you done with science?
Do you like watching science TV programs?
Do Chinese people often visit science museums?
38 P1 Daily routine
Do you often go to bed late or early?
What is your daily study routine?
Have you ever changed your routine?
Do you think it is important to have a daily routine for your study?
What part of your day do you like best?
39 P1 Doing sports
What sports do you like?
Where did you learn how to do it?
Did you do some sports when you were young?
Do you think students need more exercise?
Do you know any schoolmates who are good at sports?
Do you think it is important for people to exercise?
Should schools encourage young students to take more physical exercise?
40 P1 Childhood memory
What did you enjoy doing as a child?
Did you enjoy your childhood?
What are your best childhood memories?
Do you think it is better for children to grow up in the city or in the countryside?
Where did you go to play as a child?
Who did you like to play with as a child?

41 P1 Morning routines
What do you do in the mornings?
Is breakfast important?
What is your morning routine?
Do you like to get up early in the morning?
42 P1 Staying at home
Are you a person who likes to stay at home?
What do you do when you stay at home?
What is your favourite place at home?
What did you often do at home as a child?
Would you like to stay at home a lot in the future?
What do you like to do in your free time when you're at home?
43 P1 Films/cinemas
What films do you like?
Did you often watch films when you were a child?
Did you ever go to the cinema alone as a child?
Do you often go to the cinema with your friends?
Do you think going to the cinema is a good way to spend time with friends?
How often do you watch films?
Do you prefer to watch films at home or in the cinema?
44 P1 Music/Musical instruments
Have you ever learned to play a musical instrument?
What musical instruments do you enjoy listening to the most?
Do you think children should learn to play an instrument at school?
Do you think music education is important to children?
Do a lot of people like music?
Do schools in your country have music lessons?

45 P1 Weekends
Do you do the same things every weekend?
Has your weekend routine changed?
Do you like weekends?
What do you usually do on weekends? Do you study or work?
What did you do last weekend?
Do you make plans for your weekends?
46 P1 Social media
When did you start using social media?
Do you think you spend too much time on social media?
Do your friends use social media?
What do people often do on social media?

46 P1 Work or studies
What subjects are you studying?
Do you like your subject?
Why did you choose to study that subject?
Do you think that your subject is popular in your country?
Do you have any plans for your studies in the next five years?
What are the benefits of being your age?
Do you want to change your major?
Do you prefer to study in the mornings or in the afternoons?
How much time do you spend on your studies each week?
Are you looking forward to working?
What technology do you use when you study?
What changes would you like to see in your school?
What work do you do?
Why did you choose to do that type of work (or that job)?
Do you like your job?
What requirements did you need to meet to get your current job?
Do you have any plans for your work in the next five years?

What do you think is the most important at the moment?
Do you want to change to another job?
Do you miss being a student?
What technology do you use at work?
Who helps you the most? And how?

47 P1 Home/accommodation
What kind of house or apartment do you want to live in in the future?
Are the transport facilities to your home very good?
Do you prefer living in a house or an apartment?
Please describe the room you live in.
What part of your home do you like the most?
How long have you lived there?
Do you plan to live there for a long time?
What’s the difference between where you are living now and where you have
lived in the past?
Can you describe the place where you live?
What room does your family spend most of the time in?
What's your favorite room in your apartment or house？
What makes you feel pleasant in your home？
Do you think it is important to live in a comfortable environment？
Do you live in an apartment or a house?
Who do you live with?
What do you usually do in your apartment?
What kinds of accommodation do you live in?

48 P1 Hometown
Where is your hometown?
Is that a big city or a small place?
Please describe your hometown a little.
How long have you been living there?
Do you think you will continue living there for a long time?

Do you like your hometown?
Do you like living there?
What do you like (most) about your hometown?
Is there anything you dislike about it?
What's your hometown famous for？
Did you learn about the history of your hometown at school？
Are there many young people in your hometown?
Is your hometown a good place for young people to pursue their careers?
Have you learned anything about the history of your hometown?
Did you learn about the culture of your hometown in your childhood?

49 P1 The area you live in
Do you like the area that you live in?
Where do you like to go in that area?
Do you know any famous people in your area?
What are some changes in the area recently?
Do you know any of your neighbors?
Are the people in your neighborhood nice and friendly?
Do you live in a noisy or a quiet area?

50 P1 The city you live in
What city do you live in?
Do you like this city? Why?
How long have you lived in this city?
Are there big changes in this city?
Is this city your permanent residence?
Are there people of different ages living in this city?
Are the people friendly in the city?
Is the city friendly to children and old people?
Do you often see your neighbors?
What's the weather like where you live?
Would you recommend your city to others?

四、 Part2&Part3 老题沿用（76 道）
1 P2 学到新东西的网络视频
Describe an online video in which you learned something new
You should say:
When and where you watched it
What it was
Why you watched it
And explain what you have learned from it
P3
What kinds of videos are most popular in your country?
Are there many people who watch online videos a lot?
Do you think people spend too much time watching short videos? Why?
Why are so many young people obsessed with short videos?
What are the advantages of online learning?
Do you think online learning will replace face-to-face learning?
2 P2 令你自信的事
Describe something you did in your study/work that has
made you feel confident
You should say:
When and where it happened
What you did
Why it made you feel confident
And explain how you felt about it
P3
How can a person become more confident?
What can teachers do to help their students become more confident?
How can teachers help their students become more confident by
rewarding them for studying?
What can teachers do to make studying more interesting?

Do you think that children of confident parents are also confident?
Why do so many people lack confidence these days?
3 P2 固执已见的人
Describe a person who has strong opinions
You should say:
Who this person is
How you knew him/her
What kinds of strong opinions this person has
And explain why you think he/she is a person who has strong opinions
P3
What do young people have strong opinions about?
What do old people have strong opinions about?
Are there many young people who have strong opinions in our lives?
Which is more important, listening to others or persuading others?
Do you think we should only say something after thinking it through?
Do you think it is good to have strong opinions?
4 P2 公共场所接陌生人电话
Describe a time when you answered a phone call from someone
you didn't know in a public place
You should say:
When and where it happened
Who called you
What he/she said
How you responded
And explain how you felt about the experience
P3
Do most people mind others talking on the phone in public places?
What are the differences between sitting next to someone who talks
on the phone and sitting next to people who talk to each other

while traveling by train?
Why do some people not care about their actions in public?
Should parents teach their children to behave well in public?
Is it acceptable to talk on the phone in public?
Should people be banned from talking loudly in public places?
5 P2 重新联系的老友
Describe an old friend you had lost touch with and got in contact with again
You should say:
Who he/she is
How you knew each other
Why you lost contact
How you got in contact again
And explain how you felt after getting in contact again
P3
Is it better to have a lot of friends than just a few friends?
Would having just a few friends limit your horizons?
Do you think you are good at maintaining good relationships with others?
Why do old friends lose touch with each other?
Why do people need to make new friends?
Why do we have to give up some old friends?
6 P2 文化之地
Describe a cultural place that you would like to learn the culture there
(e.g. a library, museum, theatre)
You should say:
Where it is
How you knew this place
What it is like
And explain how the place is related to culture

P3
How does the internet affect culture?
How is a culture formed?
What kind of culture is popular among young people?
How do young people learn about different cultures?
Which is more important in terms of culture, literature or music?
Does the culture of the past have an impact on today's culture?
7 P2 给建议的人
Describe a person from whom others like to ask for advice
You should say:
Who this person is
Why people like to ask for his/her advice
What kind of advice he/she often gives
And explain how you feel about the person
P3
Do you follow the advice of your family members?
Who should people ask for advice on big issues, family members or friends?
Do people often ask for advice from professional people, like a lawyer?
Why do some people like to ask others for advice on almost everything?
Do you think the advice parents give their children is always good?
Are professional consultancy services expensive in your country?
8 P2 拥挤地方
Describe a crowded place you went to
You should say:
Where it was
When you went there
Who you went there with
What you did there
And how you felt about it

P3
Which cities are overcrowded in your country?
Will there be more or less green space in cities in the future?
Will people use bikes more or less in cities in the future?
Why do people go to crowded places?
Do you think there are some people who enjoy crowded places?
Do you think it is a good trend to have more big cities?
9 P2 理想房屋
Describe an ideal and perfect place where you would like to stay
(e.g. a house, an apartment)
You should say:
Where it would be
What it would look like
What special features it would have
Whether it would be big or small
And explain why it would be an ideal place for you
P3
What are apartments like in your country?
Why are apartments popular in some places while not in other places?
What would people normally consider when they rent or buy a house or
an apartment?
Do different people have different preferences for houses or apartments?
Why do some people choose to live in the city center?
What do you think buildings will be like in the future?
10 P2 近期观影
Describe a movie you watched and enjoyed recently
You should say:
When and where you watched it
Who you watched it with
What it was about

And explain why you watched this movie
P3
What kinds of movies do you think are successful in your country?
What are the factors that make a successful movie?
Do Chinese people prefer to watch domestic movies or foreign movies?
Do you think only well-known directors can create the best movies?
Do you think successful movies should have well-known actors or actresses
in leading roles?
Why do people prefer to watch movies in the cinema?
11 P2 帮助亲人
Describe an occasion when you helped a family member/relative
with something
You should say:
When it happened
Who you helped
How you helped
And explain how you felt about the experience
P3
How can children help their parents at home?
Should parents always help their children with everything?
What can children learn by helping others?
Should parents reward their children when they help others?
Do neighbours often help each other in your country?
How do people know that their neighbours might need help?
12 P2 医疗人士
Describe a person you know who has chosen a career in the medical field
(e.g. a doctor, a nurse)
You should say:
Who he/she is

What he/she does
Why he/she chose this career
And explain how you feel about him/her
P3
Do you think doctors and nurses are very important?
Who plays a more important role, doctors or nurses?
Do you think that doctors and nurses are not paid enough?
Do you think it is necessary to learn first aid skills?
What are the differences between the work of a doctor and a nurse?
Can a hospital function effectively without nurses?
13 P2 弄丢贵重物品
Describe a time when you lost an important and valuable item
You should say:
When and where it happened
What it was
How important and valuable it was
How you lost it
And explain how you felt about the experience
P3
What are some common items that people tend to lose easily?
What are the reasons why people often misplace or lose things?
What do people often do after losing things?
What should parents do to teach their children not to lose things?
Are there any good ways to remind us not to forget or lose things?
Is it important for students to be organized?
14 P2 获奖
Describe a prize you have received recently (e.g. money, something valuable,
a medal)
You should say:

What it was
When you received it
What you did to receive it
And explain how you felt about it
P3
Do you think competition is all about the prize?
Why should we set prizes for competitions?
What prizes should schools set for students?
What criteria should be set for students to win a particular prize?
Why do many companies offer prizes to their customers?
Why do some companies encourage employees to compete with each other?
15 P2 遇到困难挑战
Describe a challenge you faced that you thought was rather difficult
You should say:
What it was
When and where you faced it
Why you thought it was a difficult challenge
And explain how you felt at the time
P3
What do children often do when they face a challenge?
Is it easy for children to overcome a challenge?
Do most people choose to face a challenge alone or with others?
What activities do you think would make children feel challenged? Why?
What challenges would people face when learning new sports?
Why do some people enjoy doing extreme sports?
16 P2 读书迷
Describe a person who likes to read a lot
You should say:
Who this person is

How you knew him/her
What he/she likes to read
And explain why you think he/she likes to read a lot
P3
Why are many people so keen on reading?
Do you think parents should help their children develop the reading habit
from an early age?
Is reading for fun or for work?
What reading topics are popular in your country?
What are the differences between paper books and movies?
Do you think people of all ages need to read?
17 P2 喜欢做手工的人
Describe a person who likes to make things by hand (e.g. toys, furniture)
You should say:
Who this person is
What he/she makes
Why he/she likes to make things by hand
And explain how you feel about the person
P3
Are traditional handicrafts important to tourism?
What are the benefits for students to learn to make things by hand?
Why do many children like to make things by hand?
Are there any traditional handicrafts in your hometown?
Is it reasonable to charge a high price for handmade things?
How does modern technology change the handicraft industry?
18 P2 喜欢和亲友去的地方
Describe a place in your hometown/city that is different from other places
and that you enjoy visiting with your parents/friends
You should say:

Where it is
What it is like
What you often do there
Who you often go there with
And explain why you think it is different
P3
What are the differences between big cities and small cities?
Where do people in your hometown like to go?
What are the differences between the places young people like to go and
the places old people like to go?
What do young people like to do in their leisure time?
Do you think it is necessary to visit the same place many times?
What factors attract people to go to visit other places other than
their hometown?
19 P2 公园/花园
Describe a public park or garden
You should say:
Where it is
What it is like
How often you go there
What you often do there
And explain how you feel about it
P3
Is it necessary to have public parks in cities?
What facilities are needed in a park?
What are the differences between a garden and a natural area?
Why do people like to visit tourist attractions?
What tourist attractions are popular in China?
How can we encourage young people to go to parks more often?
20 P2 传统节日的食物

Describe your favourite food at a traditional festival or a special event
in your country
You should say:
What it is
At which festival/event you eat it
How it is made
And explain why you like it
P3
Do people in your country grow plants at home?
What plants can people grow in cities?
Are there any difficulties when people grow plants in cities?
Do most people prefer vegetables bought from the supermarket or
grown at home?
Why do people like to have a big meal at traditional festivals or big events?
Is it bad behavior for people to look at their phones during a meal?
21 P2 别人房间
Describe someone else's room you enjoy spending time in
You should say:
When you visited there
Whose room it is
What it is like
What you can do in it
And explain why you enjoy spending time there
P3
Do you like to invite your friends to your home?
Do most people visit other people's houses during the Spring Festival?
Why do people often take gifts with them when they visit others’ homes?
What are the most enjoyable parts of having a meal together with your family?
Who likes to stay at home more, young people or old people?
Do you think old people will be able to keep up with the pace of technology

in 50 years?
22 P2 看到野生动物的地方
Describe a place you know where people can see a lot of wildlife (e.g. animals,
birds, insects)
You should say:
Where it is
What kinds of wildlife people can see there
Whether people like to go there
And explain how you feel about it
P3
Why are most children interested in wild animals?
Should parents take their children to the zoo to see wild animals?
Are wild animals easy to spot in your country?
Are there many wildlife documentaries produced in your country?
What impacts does only seeing wild animals in zoos have on children’s
understanding of these animals?
Which is the better way to see wildlife, watching documentaries or going into
the wild?
23 P2 购物服务
Describe a time when you received good service in a shop/store
You should say:
Where the shop is
When you went to the shop
What service you received from the staff
And explain how you felt about the service
P3
Why are shopping malls so popular in China?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of shopping in small shops?
Why do some people not like shopping in small shops?

What are the differences between online shopping and in-store shopping?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of shopping online?
Can consumption drive economic growth?
24 P2 生活精彩有趣的老人
Describe an old person you know who has had an interesting life
You should say:
Who this person is
Where he/she lives
What he/she has done in his/her life
And explain how you feel about him/her
P3
What do old people often do in their daily lives?
Why do some people live with old people?
Can old people and their grandchildren learn from each other when they live
together?
What are the benefits of elderly people living alone?
Do old people prefer to stay at home or go outside? Why?
Do you think old people’s life will improve with the development of
technology?
25 P2 向小辈展示新东西
Describe a time that you showed something which was new to a person who
was younger than you
You should say:
When it was
What it was
Who you showed it to
How you showed it
Why you showed it
And explain how you felt about it

P3
What skills should children learn?
What are the differences between the things adults learn and the things that
children learn?
Why are some people not willing to ask help from others while studying?
What skills do you think children should learn before going to school?
How can young people be motivated to learn new things?
Is it possible for a person to achieve something without motivation?
26 P2 有用的发明
Describe an invention that is useful in your daily life
You should say:
What the invention is
What it can do
How popular it is
Whether it is difficult or easy to use
And explain why it is useful
P3
What qualities do inventors have?
Do you think only scientists can invent new things?
What inventions do you think should be improved?
Are there any other inventions that make the world better?
Do all inventions bring benefits to our world?
Who should support and sponsor inventors, governments, or private
companies?
27 P2 印象深刻的课程
Describe a course that impressed you a lot
You should say:
What the course was about
Where you took the course
What you did during the course

And explain why it impressed you a lot
P3
Why do some people have a better memory than others?
Do people like things of memorial significance?
Which can help people remember things better, words or photos?
Can technology help people remember things better? How?
What do people need to remember in their daily lives?
What can we learn from history?
28 P2 有趣的邻居
Describe an interesting neighbor
You should say:
Who he/she is
How you knew him/her
What you do together
And explain why he/she is interesting
P3
Do you think people are familiar with their neighbors?
How can people improve the relationship with neighbors in a community?
How do children build relationships with others in a community?
Is it beneficial to get along well with neighbors?
Why do many people in big cities not know their neighbors?
How do people build relationships with local people in a new place?
29 P2 组织快乐活动
Describe a time when you organized a happy event successfully
You should say:
What the event was
How you prepared for it
Who helped you to organize it
And explain why you think it was a successful event

P3
How can parents help children to be organized?
On what occasions do people need to be organized?
Does everything need to be well prepared?
Do people need others’ help when organizing things?
How would you feel when you were not well prepared for something?
Do you prefer to prepare and organize an activity or just take part in
an activity?
30 P2 想要共事的家人
Describe a family member who you want to work with in the future
You should say:
Who he/she is
Whether you worked together before
What kind of work you would like to do with him/her
And explain how you feel about this family member
P3
What kinds of family businesses are common in China?
Is it good to work with family members? Why?
Why do people want to have a family business?
What benefits are there when working for big companies?
Why do people want to change their jobs?
What do people need to do to change their jobs?
31 P2 重要河流/湖泊
Describe an important river/lake in your country
You should say:
Where it is located
How big/long it is
What it looks like
And explain why it is important

P3
How can rivers and lakes benefit local people?
Do you think rivers and lakes attract tourists?
How do rivers and lakes affect local tourism?
Are rivers and lakes good for transport? Why?
What are the popular water sports in your country?
Are rivers and lakes important to a country?
32 P2 提高注意力
Describe something you do that can help you concentrate on work/study
You should say:
What it is
How it helps you concentrate
When you do it
And explain how you feel about it
P3
Why is it more difficult for children to concentrate nowadays than in the past?
Do you think technology will harm children’s ability to concentrate?
What kinds of jobs require high concentration at work?
Can exercise help people improve concentration?
Is it important for children to concentrate on their studies? Why?
What can people do to improve their ability to concentrate?
33 P2 传统产品
Describe a traditional product in your country
You should say:
What it is
When you tried this product for the first time
What it is made of
And explain how you feel about it

P3
Why are traditional products important?
Do you think traditions are important for a country? Why?
What are some traditional Chinese products?
Why is it important for children to learn about traditional products?
Do you think people should be proud of their own culture? Why?
Where should children learn about culture, at school or at home?
34 P2 有趣的讨论
Describe an interesting discussion you had with your friend
You should say:
What the discussion was about
What opinions you and your friend had
Why you think the discussion was interesting
And how you felt about it
P3
When do children normally form their own views?
Do children have strong opinions?
Should parents require their kids to obey them?
In what industries do you think communication is a necessary skill?
Should parents consider their children’s opinions on everything? Why?
Why do some young people refuse to communicate with others?
35 P2 一个去过的新地方
Describe a time you visited a new place
You should say:
Where the new place is
When you went there
Why you went there
And explain how you feel about the place
P3

Which do you prefer, living in a city or only visiting it as a tourist?
How do young children react when they go to school for the first time?
Why do some people want to go to college far away from home?
How do young and old people react differently to new things?
Do you think it’s important to get as much information as possible before going
to a new place?
Why do many people enjoy visiting a new place?
36 P2 社交媒体上常刷的人
Describe a person who you regularly follow on social media
You should say:
Who he/she is
How you knew him/her
What he/she posts on social media
And explain why you follow him/her on social media
P3
What can people do on social media?
Do older people and younger people use the same kinds of social media apps?
Do older people spend much time on social media?
Are non-social media like television and newspapers still useful?
Do you think people will read paper newspapers and books in the future? Why?
Do you think it is easy to make friends on social media?
37 P2 喜欢一起聊天的朋友
Describe a friend you like to talk with
You should say:
Who he/she is
What you like to talk about
Why you like to talk with him/her
And explain how you feel about him/her
P3

Where do young people like to meet?
What do young people talk about when they meet up?
Do you think people should be honest when talking with friends?
On what occasions do people talk with strangers?
What makes a good listener?
What are the differences between talking to a friend and talking to a stranger?
38 P2 花费甚少的外出日
Describe a special day out that cost you little money/didn’t cost you much
You should say:
When the day was
Where you went
How much you spent
And explain how you feel about the day
P3
Do people like to spend their leisure time out in your country?
How do people spend their leisure time in your country?
How does technology affect the way people spend their leisure time?
Do you think only old people have time for leisure?
Why do people like to have days off?
Going out to have holidays is tiring. Why do people still want to do it?
39 P2 有趣的歌曲
Describe an interesting song
You should say:
What the song is
What story the song tells
Whether the song is popular
And explain why you think it is interesting
P3

Why are many music competitions popular in China?
What kinds of music do young people like?
What kinds of people like traditional music?
What are the differences between live concert and online concert?
Do you like to watch music TV programs? Why?
Are foreign songs popular in your country?
40 P2 生活中离不开的东西
Describe something that you can’t live without (not a computer/phone)
You should say:
What it is
What you do with it
How it helps you in your life
And explain why you can’t live without it
P3
Why are children attracted to new things (such as electronics)?
Why do some grown-ups hate to throw out old things (such as clothes)?
Is the way people buy things affected? How?
What do you think influences people to buy new things?
Why do all children like toys?
Do you think it is good for a child to always take his or her favourite toy with
them all the time?
41 P2 语言学习
Describe a thing you did to learn another language
You should say:
What language you learned
What you did
How it helped you learn the language
And how you felt about it

P3
What difficulties do people face when learning a language?
Do you think language learning is important? Why?
Which is better, to study a language alone or to study it in a group? Why?
What's the best way to learn a language?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of learning a language?
Some people think that technology has made it unnecessary to learn
languages. What do you think?
42 P2 惊喜之事
Describe something that surprised you and made you happy
You should say:
What it was
Who did this
How you found out about it and what you did
And explain why it surprised you and made you happy
P3
How do people express happiness in your culture?
Do you think happiness has any effect on people? How?
How can people be happy?
Is it good for people to be unhappy? Why?
Do men and women have different attitudes and feelings about shopping?
What do people usually spend money on?
43 P2 远距离步行
Describe a long walk you ever had
You should say:
When this happened
Where you walked
Who you were with
And explain how you felt about this long walk

P3
What outdoor activities do people like?
What are the differences between the outdoor activities children did in the past
and now?
Is leisure time important to everyone? Why?
Do women have more leisure time than men?
What are the benefits of outdoor activities for children?
Do you think that walking is not as helpful as playing other sports for our
health?
44 P2 一次非常忙碌的经历
Describe a time you were very busy
You should say:
When it happened
Where you were
What you did
And explain why you were busy
P3
Are you often busy？
What are the advantages and disadvantages when people keep busy？
Do you think children should learn through playing games or under pressure?
What kind of pressure people may experience at work?
How does technology help with time management?
Does technology distract people?
45 P2 别人给你的衣服
Describe an item of clothing that someone gave you
You should say:
What the clothing was
Who gave it to you
When you got it
And explain why this person gave you the clothing

P3
Why do people from different countries wear different clothing?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of wearing uniforms at work
and school?
Why do people dress casually in everyday life but dress formally at work?
Have you ever given clothes to others?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of wearing a uniform at school?
What influences the way people dress in today’s society?
46 P2 困难决定终成功
Describe a difficult decision that you made and had a good result
You should say:
What the decision was
When you made that decision
Why it was difficult to make
And explain how you felt about the good result
P3
Do you think it's necessary for kids to make as many decisions by themselves
as they can?
Do you think some people can make decisions without asking for advice
from others?
Do you think young people are easily influenced by others when they make
decisions? Why or why not?
What kinds of decisions do young people have to make?
Who do young people like to ask for advice when making decisions?
Do advertisements influence consumers’ decisions?
47 P2 你的国家的名人
Describe a popular/well-known person in your country
You should say:
Who this person is

What he/she has done
Why he/she is popular
And explain how you feel about this person
P3
What kinds of people are popular at work?
Are bosses more popular than employees at work?
Which one is more important, maintaining a good relationship with colleagues
or doing well at work?
What benefits are there when a child is popular at school?
Are there any disadvantages if a child is popular at school?
Do you think popular children will grow up to be popular adults?
48 P2 庆祝过的活动
Describe an important event you celebrated
You should say:
What the event was
When it happened
Who attended the event
And explain how you felt about the event
P3
Do people often celebrate festivals with families?
Do people often celebrate events with a large group of people or just
a few people?
What kinds of events do people usually celebrate?
Do you like to celebrate important events? Why?
Why is it important to celebrate festivals?
Do most people like to share their good news with others?
49 P2 想参加的比赛
Describe a contest/competition you would like to participate in
You should say:

What the contest/competition is about
Where the contest/competition will take place
When it will be held
And explain why you would like to participate in it
P3
What are the contests commonly seen on TV programs?
Why are competition shows popular?
What kinds of industries need competition? Why?
Do you think it is necessary to encourage people to compete with one another
in companies?
What kinds of people like to take part in competitions?
Do you think the ability to compete is natural or learned?
50 P2 收到特殊蛋糕
Describe a special cake you received from others
You should say:
When it happened
Where it happened
Who you got the cake from
And explain why it’s a special cake
P3
Do you think it’s good to communicate when eating with your family?
Why are some people willing to spend a lot of money on meals on special
days?
Is there any food in your country that is eaten at special times or on special
occasions?
What are the differences between special food in China and other countries?
What are the differences between special food in China and other countries?
In your country, do people nowadays cook at home as frequently as people did
in the past?
What do you think of people using their mobile phones during a meal?

51 P2 童年喜欢的玩具
Describe a toy you liked in your childhood
You should say:
What kind of toy it is
When you received it
How you played it
And how you felt about it
P3
How do advertisements influence children?
Should advertising aimed at kids be prohibited?
What's the difference between the toys kids play now and those they played in
the past?
Do you think parents should buy more toys for their kids or spend more time
with them?
What's the difference between the toys boys play with and girls play with?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of modern toys?
52 P2 对社会有贡献的人
Describe a person who contributes to the society
You should say:
Who this person is
How you knew him/her
What type of work he/she does
And explain why you think he/she contributes to the society
P3
What jobs are well-paid?
What are the changes in working conditions?
What are the impacts of the epidemic on the work environment?
Do you think younger people should be lower paid than older people?
What skills should be taught at school to improve students’ ability to find jobs?

What kinds of jobs are not paid fairly?
53 P2 征求意见
Describe a time when someone asked for your opinion
You should say:
Who asked for your opinion
Why he/she wanted to know your opinion
What opinion you gave
And explain how you felt when he/she asked for your opinion
P3
What are the disadvantages of sharing opinions on the Internet?
Why do people like to express their opinions on the Internet nowadays?
Are there any apps designed for collecting opinions about products or services?
Why do some people dislike giving their opinions?
Should teachers give advice to children?
What should a company do when receiving feedback about its products?
54 P2 交通拥堵
Describe a time when you were stuck in a traffic jam for a very long time
You should say:
When it happened
Where you were stuck
What you did while waiting
And explain how you felt in the traffic jam
P3
How can we solve the traffic jam problem?
Do you think developing public transport can solve traffic jam problems?
Do you think the high ways will help reduce traffic jams?
What are good ways to manage traffic?
Do you like to use public transport?
Would you rather be in a car or a bus in a traffic jam?

55 P2 丢东西的经历
Describe an occasion that you lost something in public
You should say:
What you lost
When and where you lost it
What you did to find it
And explain how you felt about it
P3
What kinds of things do people usually lose?
What will people do when losing things?
Is it effective to offer rewards to find lost things?
What kinds of people may lose things often?
What can we do to reduce the possibility of losing things?
What do people often feel after losing things?
56 P2 有趣/著名的城市
Describe a city that you think is very interesting/famous
You should say:
Where it is
What it is famous for
How you knew this city
And explain why you think it is very interesting/famous
P3
What advantages can tourism bring to a city?
Why do some young people like to live in cities?
Do most elderly people live in the city or in the countryside?
Do you think well-developed tourism will have negative effects
on local people?
What are the benefits of urbanization?
Do you think the big cities in China today will become even larger in the future?

57 P2 别人讲述的故事
Describe a story someone told you and you remember
You should say:
What the story was about
Who told you this story
Why you remember it
And how you feel about it
P3
Do young children like the same stories as older children?
How has technology changed storytelling?
How do people tell stories to children?
Why do children like stories?
Will smart devices affect the relationship between children and parents?
Which do you think is better, paper books or e-books?
58 P2 不喜欢并想要改变的规则
Describe a rule you dislike and would like to change in the future
You should say:
What it is
What it is for
Why you don’t like it
And explain why you would like to change it
P3
What are the rules students should follow at school?
Are the rules at school good or bad? Why?
What rules should children follow at home?
How are people punished when parking at a wrong spot?
When is it okay to break the rules?
Do you know anyone who has broken the law? How?
59 P2 节约时间的方法/改变

Describe a way/change that helps you save a lot of time
You should say:
What it is
How you implement it
How difficult it is
And explain how you feel about the way/change
P3
What can people do to save time?
Does technology help people save time? How and why?
Do you think parents should be responsible for teaching children to save time?
Do people who can manage time well become successful more easily?
Is it necessary for children to learn time management?
What can schools do to help students learn time management?
60 P2 安静的地方
Describe a quiet place you like to go
You should say:
Where it is
How you knew it
How often you go there
What you do there
And explain how you feel about the place
P3
Is it easy to find quiet places in your country? Why?
How do people spend their leisure time in your country?
How does technology affect the way people spend their leisure time?
Do you think only old people have time for leisure?
Why do old people prefer to live in quiet places?
Why are there more noises made at home now than in the past?
61 P2 工作/学习中的积极建议

Describe an occasion when someone gave you positive advice or suggestions
about your work/study
You should say:
Who the person is
What he/she said
How the advice/suggestion affected you
And explain how you felt about the advice/suggestions
P3
When should parents encourage their children?
Should parents always encourage their children?
Do you think negative feedback is more important than positive feedback?
Why?
Why is negative feedback as important as positive feedback at work or in
study?
Which is more important for adults in the workplace, positive feedback or
negative feedback?
Do you think people care about others’ comments about them?
62 P2 保健方式
Describe something you do to keep fit and healthy
You should say:
What it is
When you do it
Who you do it with
Why it is important to keep fit and healthy
And explain why it can help you keep fit and healthy
P3
How do children and old people keep fit and healthy?
What do people normally do to keep fit and healthy in your country?
How can parents help and guide their kids to keep healthy?
Do you think it is good for governments to utilize popular celebrities to help

build health awareness?
How can we use technology to keep fit?
Should schools provide physical education to students? Why and how?
63 P2 坏掉又修好的东西
Describe something that was broken in your home and then repaired
You should say:
What it is
How it was broken
How you got it repaired
And how you felt about it
P3
Are IT-related jobs valued more by society?
Is the quality of products worse than before?
What kinds of things do people like to repair by themselves?
Why do people like to get their mobile phones repaired in specialized stores?
Do you think luxury products are of better quality?
What kinds of things are easily repaired?
64 P2 一见且想再见的人
Describe a person you only met once recently and want to know more about
You should say:
Who he/she is
When you met him/her
Why you want to know more about him/her
And explain how you feel about him/her
P3
How do people make friends in China?
On what occasions do people like to make friends?
Is it important to have the same hobbies and interests when making friends?
What qualities make true friends?

What can we do to leave a good impression on people we meet for the first
time?
What should we not talk about when we meet a person for the first time?
65 P2 送朋友的礼物
Describe a gift you would like to buy for your friend
You should say:
How you knew your friend
How long you have known him/her
How you would choose a gift for him/her
And explain why you would choose that gift for him/her
P3
When do people normally send gifts to others?
Is it hard to choose a gift?
Will people feel happy when receiving an expensive gift?
Which do people give on traditional festivals, red envelopes or
other kinds of gifts?
What do people usually consider when buying gifts?
Are there any unlucky things that people should not buy as gifts
in your country?
66 P2 去过的乡村
Describe a countryside that you have been to
You should say:
Where it is
When and why you went there
Who you went there with
And explain how you felt about it
P3
Do people in your country like to go hiking?
Do most people prefer to live in big cities or in the countryside?

Do people go to the countryside to travel or to live?
What kind of people would like to stay in the countryside?
What are the advantages and disadvantages of living in the countryside?
What are the differences between the city and the countryside?
67 P2 喜欢共度时光的人
Describe someone you like to spend time with
You should say:
Who this person is
How you knew him/her
What you usually do together
And explain why you like to spend time with him/her
P3
What kinds of people are easy to get along with?
How do leaders get along with their subordinates?
Do people have time for themselves nowadays?
Do you like talking with older people? Why?
Do you think it's important to spend some time alone?
Do you think it is important for us to get along with different kinds of people?
68 P2 壮志未酬
Describe an ambition that you haven't achieved
You should say:
What it is
Why you haven't achieved it
What you are doing about it now
And how you feel about it
P3
What ambitions do children usually have?
Why are some people very ambitious in their work?
Why don't some people have dreams?

How do people balance work and life?
Why do some people like to be the manager in the workplace?
What are the traits of ambitious people?
69 P2 向长者学习的技能
Describe a skill that you learned from older people
You should say:
What the skill is
Who you learned it from
How you learned it
And how you feel about it
P3
What can children learn from their parents?
What kind of help do you think older people need?
What skills can young people learn from older people?
What knowledge can children learn from their grandparents?
What new skills can old people learn?
Do you think many old people in your country feel lonely?
70 P2 用手机做重要事情
Describe a time you used your cellphone/smartphone to do
something important
You should say:
What happened
When it happened
How important the cellphone/smartphone was
And explain how you felt about the experience
P3
What do you usually do with a cellphone?
What are the differences between young people and old people
when using a cellphone?

Which one is more important, using a cellphone to make phone calls
or to read messages?
Do you think there should be a law to stop people from making
phone calls in public?
What can be done to stop cellphone addiction?
Do you think it is too late to call others at 11 or 12 o’clock at night?
71 P2 帮助小孩
Describe a time when you helped a child
You should say:
When it was
How you helped him/her
Why you helped him/her
And how you felt about it
P3
What can schools do to develop students’ awareness of volunteering?
Why is it necessary to do volunteer services?
What can you do to help your neighbors?
Do people in your country like to help neighbors?
Why is it important to help neighbors?
Should developed countries provide technological help to developing
countries?
72 P2 免费物品
Describe something you received for free
You should say:
What it was
Who you received it from
Where you received it
And how you felt about it

P3
Why do customers like to receive free gifts from companies?
Is it good or bad for people to have free education in the future?
Why should everyone have access to basic healthcare?
Is it necessary to provide free public transportation?
Will people be happy when they receive free things?
What kinds of free service should be provided by the government?
73 P2 造福社会的工作
Describe a job that is useful to the society
You should say:
What job it is
How you know about this job
What types of people do this job
And explain why you think this job is useful to the society
P3
What kind of jobs are well-paid in your country?
What kind of jobs receive a low income?
What kind of jobs deserve a high salary?
Do you think doctors should be well-paid?
Who should receive a higher salary, young people or older people?
Do you think schools should provide career advice to students?
74 P2 去过且推荐的宜居之地
Describe a place you have been to and would like to recommend others to live
there (not your hometown)
You should say:
Where it is
What the place is like
When you visited there
Who you went there with
And explain why you would recommend this place to others

P3
Why do people move from one place to another?
What should people prepare before they move to a different city?
What kinds of place do people in your country prefer to live in?
What are the benefits of living close to one's workplace?
What factors make a city liveable?
Why do many people choose to move to big cities?
75 P2 改变世界的发明
Describe an invention that has changed the world in a positive way
You should say:
What it is
What benefits it has brought
How it influences people of different ages
And explain how it changed people's lives
P3
What is the most helpful innovation at home?
What household appliances make us lazy?
What kinds of inventions can be used at school?
Do you think AI will replace human teachers? Why?
76 P2 年轻人的偶像
Describe someone (a famous person) that is a role model for young people
You should say:
Who he/she is
How you knew him/her
What he/she has done
And explain why he/she can be a role model for young people
P3
What kinds of people are likely to be the role models for teenagers?

Is it important for children to have a role model?
Are there any differences between today’s famous people and those of the past?
What qualities do famous people have?
What kinds of people are likely to become famous?
Do people tend to choose the best people as their role model?